---
id: nvuc3n04qutu749nxkgurey
title: Sphinx
desc: ''
updated: 1690229688931
created: 1690228048103
---
## Generating Sphinx Docs for Python

Step-by-step guide:

1. **Install Sphinx**: Install Sphinx in your Python environment using pip.

    ```shell
    pip install sphinx
    ```

2. **Initialize the docs directory**: Run `sphinx-quickstart` in your project directory to generate the base files for the documentation.

    ```shell
    mkdir docs
    cd docs
    sphinx-quickstart
    ```

    When prompted, you can press enter to accept the default values for most options. Make sure to say yes (`y`) to the "autodoc" extension, which is used to generate documentation from docstrings.

3. **Configure Sphinx**: In the `conf.py` file generated by `sphinx-quickstart`, add the path to your project to the system path.

    ```python
    import os
    import sys
    sys.path.insert(0, os.path.abspath('../src'))
    ```

    Also, add `'sphinx.ext.autodoc'` to the list of extensions.

4. **Install and Configure the MyST parser**: If you want to use Markdown for some or all of your documentation, you'll need to install the MyST parser and add it to your list of extensions:

    ```shell
    pip install myst-parser
    ```

    Then add it to the `extensions` list in `conf.py`:

    ```python
    extensions = [
        'sphinx.ext.autodoc',
        'myst_parser',
    ]
    ```

5. **Write reStructuredText and Markdown files**: Create `.rst` and/or `.md` files for each of your modules to tell Sphinx what to document. These files should be in the same directory as your `conf.py` file. For a module named `my_module`, the contents of `my_module.rst` could be:

    ```rst
    my_package.my_module module
    ==========================

    .. automodule:: my_package.my_module
       :members:
    ```

    Update the `index.rst` file to include your module in the table of contents tree (`toctree`).

    To link to other documentation files, use the `:doc:` role in reStructuredText files and standard Markdown links in Markdown files.

6. **Install and configure a theme**: To use the "Read the Docs" theme, first install it with pip:

    ```shell
    pip install sphinx_rtd_theme
    ```

    Then, add it to the list of extensions and set it as the theme in `conf.py`:

    ```python
    extensions = [
        'sphinx.ext.autodoc',
        'sphinx_rtd_theme',
        'myst_parser',  # if you're using Markdown
    ]
    html_theme = 'sphinx_rtd_theme'
    ```

7. **Generate the HTML documentation**: Now you can generate the HTML documentation with the `make html` command.

    ```shell
    make html
    ```

    If everything is set up correctly, Sphinx should generate the documentation in the `_build/html` directory. Open the `index.html` file in a web browser to view your documentation.

Remember that every time you update your code or `.rst`/`.md` files, you should re-run `make html` to update the HTML documentation.

## Additional Notes and Gotchas

- Standard practice is to keep docs outside of `src`.
- You must cd to docs dir to make html `cd docs` then `make html`. `make docs/html` does not work.
- You can use the VsCode Extension live server on the `index.rst` to preview the docs.
